{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was main.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.17 r1261 (released March 28, 2018) on Thu Jan  7 10:13:46 2021
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2680\margr2700\margt2540\margb1760\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {In such ugly times, the only true protest is beauty.}{Phil Ochs}\par
{\page
\pard\plain\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {\i } \par
}\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter 1\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 [1-3] [inline]{Write the actual abstract}.\par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter 2\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Preface\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 This is where you write your personal experiences with the thesis, making a note of collaborations and contributions to authorshi. vThen you say \lquote Thanks for all the fish\rquote . Alternatively, you skip the first part and rename \lquote Preface\rquote  to \lquote Acknowledgements\rquote .\par
\pard\plain\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  Contents\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\field{\*\fldinst TOC \\o "1-3" }{\fldrslt }}
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Chapter {\*\bkmkstart BMintroduction}3{\*\bkmkend BMintroduction}\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Introduction\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Maybe I will write a short introductory text to this chapter, and all chapters in the future. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Background\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Neutron scattering is a non-destructive analytical technique which can be used to investigate certain physical properties of materials and thin films in a similar fashion as the better-known field of X-ray scattering. I will add a few applications over here. What differentiates neutron scattering from X-ray scattering is the interaction with the investigated material. When X-rays interact with the electron cloud, neutrons are interacting with the nucleus of atoms. While the basic principles of these techniques are the same, this difference in interaction has profound consequences for the potential possibilities for neutron scattering. The penetration depth of neutrons for instance is much larger than for X-rays, enabling the study of bulk materials. Another important advantage is the possibility to measure the magnetic properties of materials using neutron scattering, which can not be done with X-ray techniques. The scattering properties for neutrons vary significantly for each isotope, whereas the scattering properties for X-rays depend on the density of the electron cloud. This makes the combination of X-ray and neutron scattering a very powerful technique, as it gives rise to two completely independent data sets with the same structural information. This latter advantage is exploited in this report, where we use a combination of X-ray and neutron scattering in order to find the structural properties of deposited multilayers. The dawn of neutron scattering began in the first half of the twentieth century. The first experiments on Bragg reflection using neutrons were conducted as early as 1936. In order to do proper condensed matter research, one needs a high enough neutron flux, however, which was not possible until the end of the second world war with the invention of nuclear reactors. Neutrons cannot be generated from a filament in the same way as photons can, traditionally they are instead produced using nuclear fission. For this process, Uranium-235 is used as fuel. When a neutron collides with Uranium-235, it releases on average 2.4 neutrons. One of these is used for a new collision with a Uranium-235 particle, leaving another 2.4 neutrons to be used for neutron scattering experiments. A particular challenge with this technique is the availability of Uranium-235, which is a byproduct of nuclear weapons. This means that the required material is not only scarce, but also very sensitive to political developments. A slightly newer technique is the use of so called spallation sources. In these sources, proton pulses are accelerated to high energies, typically in the range of GeV, and directed onto a target. Upon collision, about 10 to 20 neutrons are expelled which can be used for neutron experiments. For both techniques, the neutron energy is too high for experiments. In order to reduce the energy of the neutron beam, the neutrons are transferred through a so-called moderator material such as H2O. This slows the neutrons down, and thereby reduces their energy such that they can be used for neutron scattering experiments. Include a sentence to say that in order to transport and handle the neutrons from the source to the experiment we need a neutron guide.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_neutronbookmatrac \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{neutronbookmatrac}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 2  Neutron multilayers\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Neutron multilayers are used in many different neutron optical instruments. One example of this are neutron guides, which hare used to guide the neutron beam itself. A neutron guide consists of different neutron supermirrors, which are made using a multilayer containing many different periods. Multilayers are also used for monochromators, which are used to select specific wavelengths of a beam. By choosing a certain period at a specified angle, only one wavelength fulfills the Bragg condition at reflection. Meaning only a certain wavelength will be reflected at the specified angle. This technique is commonly used to filter specific wavelengths. Using magnetic multilayers, one can also make a neutron polarizer. Once the layers are magnetized, there will be a different optical contrast for spin-up and spin-down neutrons. With the right set of materials, only one spin-reflection will be reflected while the other spin direction will be transmitted. The resulting beam here will be in one spin-direction only. Such a polarized beam can be used to investigate the magnetic properties of a material. Interface width of multilayers and the current state-of-the-art The performance of multilayers in terms of reflected intensity is highly dependent on both the optical contrast and the interface width between the layers. The optical contrast is limited by the materials of choice, while the interface width can be reduced using the correct deposition techniques. The lowest interface width that can be achieved in the current state-of-the-art is about 7 \u195?\u8230?. Reducing this interface width has advantages for multiple applications. One of these are neutron supermirrors, which consists of a multilayer with many different periods. The reflectivity performance of a neutron supermirror depends exponentially on the achieved interface width. Meaning even a small improvement will lead to a drastic increase in reflectivity performance. This means that the total flux at experiment can be increased very significantly by improvement in instrumentation, without the need of more power-intensive neutron sources. The other advantage of a reduced interface width is that the minimum thickness that can be achieved is reduced as well. The total thickness of a layer cannot meaningfully be less than the width of the interfaces. If the interfaces can be made flatter and more abrupt, the layers can be made thinner as well. This means for example that monochromators for instance can be made for higher wavelengths and lower energies, such as cold neutron beams. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  Research aims\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The essential goal of this work is to enhance the performance of neutron multilayers by reducing the interface width between the layers. As they are such essential and crucial elements in any of the intended neutron instrumentation, even the slightest improvements of the performance will have an immediate and large impact on all research conducted using those instruments. The work presented will have a significant focus on the simulation and modelling of neutron multilayers. The underlying goal here is to develop an understanding of the interface evolution of the samples, and how their performance is affected by different parameters. Finally, this project is part of the SwedNess neutron graduate school, which is established in the context of the European Spallation Source (ESS) which is being built in Lund. The overall goal in general is thereby also to develop an understanding of neutron scattering in particular, and thereby increasing the expertise that is needed with the planned operations of ESS in the future.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 4  Outline of the thesis\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In this thesis we will start with the theoretical background behind the experimental work. Starting with Chapter 2, we will describe the general scattering theory. Where we will take a look at both neutrons and X-rays and where they differ. The multilayer optics are described in chapter 3, which will describe the reflection of different kind of multilayers and what they are dependent on. The deposition of the multilayers in this work are covered in chapter 4. Here we will also describe the sputtering techniques that are used to minimize the interface width between the layers. The instrumental aspects for the reflectivity are described in chapter 5. The reflectivity simulations, which are the main technique for the characterization of the structural parameters in this work, are described in chapter 6. The other multilayer characterizations, such as ERDA, XPS and TEM are covered in chapter 7. A summary of the results will be given in chapter 8, followed by an outlook in chapter 9. The summary of the papers in this work, as well as the papers themselves are covered in chapter 10 and 11 respectively. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter {\*\bkmkstart BMscatteringtheory}4{\*\bkmkend BMscatteringtheory}\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Scattering Theory\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Maybe I will write a short introductory text to this chapter, and all chapters in the future. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMneutronscattering}1{\*\bkmkend BMneutronscattering}  Neutron scattering\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Neutron scattering may be understood when we consider how the Schr\u195?\u182?dinger wave equation can be applied to particles as well. Similar to the better-known case of photons, a beam of neutrons can either be described as a wave or as particles. While we intuitively think of neutrons as real particles with a very small but finite radius, the wavelength of a neutron can in principle have any size, even in the order of whole meters. From this realization of neutrons as a wave, it follows that the equations for diffraction of X-rays are directly applicable to neutrons as well. So while we may focus on neutrons, the principles in these sub-chapters apply to X-ray waves as well. In order to fully understand what happens when a neutron beam scatters from an interface, we consider an incoming neutron beam towards a surface with a certain scattering potential V{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 0})}}{\fldrslt }}
}, as illustrated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfresnelreflection \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.1}{The neutron beam is subject to a potential barrier upon reflection at an interface. Part of the beam will be transmitted, while another part of the beam will be reflected.}}}}. The neutron wave can be described by Schr\u195?\u182?dingers equation as usual: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ ( \\F({\u295*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}),2{\i m}){\f5\u8711*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})+{\i V}({\i r})){\u936*}({\i r})={\i E}{\u936*}({\i r})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (1)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The energy of the neutron is denoted by E, while V describes the potential to which the neutron is subject to, which may be described by the following expression 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_neutronreflectivity \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{neutronreflectivity}}}
]: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i V}({\i r})= \\F(2{\u960*}{\u295*},{\i m}){\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMpotential}2{\*\bkmkend BMpotential})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The factor {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} denotes the scattering length density (SLD) and can be seen as a measure of the scattering power for a certain material. This quantity will be further elaborated upon in subsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMSLD \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.2.2}{Scattering length density}}}}. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMfresnelreflection}1{\*\bkmkend BMfresnelreflection}: The neutron beam is subject to a potential barrier upon reflection at an interface. Part of the beam will be transmitted, while another part of the beam will be reflected.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 The neutron beam is subject to a potential barrier upon reflection at an interface. Part of the beam will be transmitted, while another part of the beam will be reflected." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 For pedagogical reasons we assume that the scattering interface is perfectly flat and abrupt, meaning the only potential barrier in the sample is perpendicular to the surface. So in this case, only the normal component of the wave vector is affected by the potential barrier. And it is therefore the normal component of the neutron\u226?\u8364?\u8482?s kinetic energy that determines whether we get total reflection from the barrier. The wave vector {{{\i k}}}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} of the incident wave can be expressed as usual from a finite potential: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})= \\F( \\R(,2{\i m}{\i E}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})),{\u295*})={{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}}){\plain sin}{\u920*}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (3)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 So rewriting for the kinetic energy we get: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i E}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})= \\F(({\i h}{{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}}){\plain sin}{\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}}))\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}),8{\u960*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}){\i m}).}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMkineticenergy}4{\*\bkmkend BMkineticenergy})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 If the perpendicular componentent of the kinetic energy, {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i E}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} < V, then total refleection will occur, the critical angle is then given by {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i E}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})={\i V}}}{\fldrslt }}
}. We can express the critical angle in wave vector transfer q. The wave vector k can simply be expressed as {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i k}= \\F(2{\u960*},{\u955*})}}{\fldrslt }}
}, and since {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i q}=2{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}}){\plain sin}{\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} we get: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i q}= \\F(4{\u960*},{\u955*}){\plain sin}{\u920*}.}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMqvector}5{\*\bkmkend BMqvector})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 So using this in combination with equations {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMkineticenergy \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.4}{Neutron scattering}}}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMpotential \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.2}{Neutron scattering}}}} we get: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i q}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i c}})= \\R(,16{\u960*}{\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})).}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMcriticalangle}6{\*\bkmkend BMcriticalangle})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 This interaction is generally considered elastic, therefore the normal part of the beam will be fully reflected with the same angle as the incoming beam meaning just as one would expect from a perfect mirror. This reflection where {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} = {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i r}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} is refered to as specular reflection.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 If {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i E}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} > V, the reflection is not total and part of the neutron beam will be transmitted through the interface. The transmitted beam will have its kinetic energy reduced by the potential barrier, giving us {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i E}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}})={\i E}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})\u8722?{\i V}}}{\fldrslt }}
}. So using this energy with the potential given in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMpotential \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.2}{Neutron scattering}}}} we get:\par
{\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i t}{\f5\u8869*}})= \\F(2{\i m}({\i E}\u8722?{\i V}),{\u295*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}))= \\F(2{\i m}{\i E},{\u295*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}))\u8722?4{\u960*}{\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (7)}\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i t}{\f5\u8869*}})={{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})\u8722?4{\u960*}{\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMtransmittedwavevector}8{\*\bkmkend BMtransmittedwavevector})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 From this relation, it also follows that the potential barrier needs to be as large as possible to maximize the total reflection, as a lower potential barrier leads to a large part of the neutron wave being transmitted. We can also define our refractive index: {\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i n}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})= \\F({{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i t}}),{{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i i}}))= \\F({{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i t}{\f5\u8741*}})+({{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})\u8722?4{\u960*}{\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})),{{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i i}}))= \\F({{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i i}{\f5\u8741*}})+({{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i i}{\f5\u8869*}})\u8722?4{\u960*}{\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})),{{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i i}}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (9)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where we used {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}{\f5\u8741*}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} = {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}{\f5\u8741*}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}, as there\rquote s no potential barrier in the parrallel direction. So filling in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMtransmittedwavevector \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.8}{Neutron scattering}}}} we get: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i n}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})=1\u8722? \\F(4{\u960*}{\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}}),{{\i k}}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i i}}))=1\u8722? \\F({\u955*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}){\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}}),2{\u960*})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (10)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 For neutrons, {{\i n}{\u8776*}1}, so the refractive index for neutrons is often given as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i n}=1\u8722? \\F({\u955*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}){\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}}),2{\u960*})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMrefractiveindexapprox}11{\*\bkmkend BMrefractiveindexapprox})}\par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMfresneltheory}1.1{\*\bkmkend BMfresneltheory}  Fresnel reflection\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 To get to an expression for the reflectivity after reflection, we consider the incoming neutron wave {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}}{\fldrslt }}
}, hitting an interface with refractive index n, this results in a reflected and a transmitted wave which are denoted by {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i r}})}}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}})}}}{\fldrslt }}
} respectively. Considering the verical component of the wave, that is in the z-direction, we can apply the boundary condition to get the following expression:\par
{\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})}={\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i i}}}){\u8901*}{\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{\u8901*}{{\i k}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i i}}){\i z}}})+{\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i r}}}){\u8901*}{\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 \u8722?{\i i}{\u8901*}{{\i k}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i r}}){\i z}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (12)}\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})}={\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i t}}}){\u8901*}{\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{\u8901*}{{\i k}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i t}{\i z}})}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (13)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 From the boundary conditions at z = 0, we get: {\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i i}}})+{\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i r}}})={\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i t}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMfirstboundary}14{\*\bkmkend BMfirstboundary})}\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i i}}}){\u8901*}{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}+{\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i r}}}){\u8901*}{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i r}})}={\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i t}}}){\u8901*}{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}})}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (15)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 For specular reflection, {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} = {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i r}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}, and for elastic scattering the wave vector is conserved, it does change direction however giving {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i r}})}}}{\fldrslt }}
} = {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \u8722?{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}}{\fldrslt }}
} this gives us for the component that is perpendicular to the plane of incidence: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ ({\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i i}}})\u8722?{\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i r}}})){\u8901*}{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}={\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i t}}}){\u8901*}{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}})}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMA_B}16{\*\bkmkend BMA_B})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Combining equations {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfirstboundary \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.14}{Fresnel reflection}}}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMA_B \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.16}{Fresnel reflection}}}}, we get: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ  \\F({\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i i}}})\u8722?{\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i r}}}),{\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i i}}})+{\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i r}}}))= \\F({{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}})},{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (17)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Which we can rewrite using standard algebra as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f0 {\i r}}= \\F({\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i r}}}),{\f0 {\i A}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i i}}}))= \\F({{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}\u8722?{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}})},{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}+{{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}})})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMfresnelreflectivity}18{\*\bkmkend BMfresnelreflectivity})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where r represents the fraction of the incident beam that is reflected. Note that the intensity, which is what is actually being measured during an experiment, is given by r{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
}. Using equations {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMcriticalangle \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.6}{Neutron scattering}}}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMtransmittedwavevector \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.8}{Neutron scattering}}}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfresnelreflectivity \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.18}{Fresnel reflection}}}}, we can re-write this in terms of q and q{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 }}){{\i c}}}}{\fldrslt }}
}: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i I}={{\i r}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}=[ \\F({\i q}\u8722? \\R(,{\i q}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})\u8722?{\i q}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i c}})),{\i q}+ \\R(,{\i q}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})\u8722?{\i q}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i c}})))]\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMintensityfresnel}19{\*\bkmkend BMintensityfresnel})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 During experiments, one often uses the incident angle {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} instead of {{\i q}}. To get to the intensity in terms of the incidence angle {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} one can simply use equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMqvector \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.5}{Neutron scattering}}}} and put it into equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMintensityfresnel \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.19}{Fresnel reflection}}}}. At high angles of incidence, when {{\i q}} {>>} {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i q}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i c}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}, equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMintensityfresnel \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.19}{Fresnel reflection}}}} reduces to: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i I}= \\F(16{\u960*},{\i q}\\s\\up5({\fs16 4})){\i N}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i b}}).}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (20)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 From which it follows that the intensity for a single layer falls off with {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i q}\\s\\up5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
} at higher angles, even for perfectly smooth interfaces. This expression is also used for the Born approximation, which will be covered later in subsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMbornapproximation \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {6.2}{Born Approximation}}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 2  Neutron scattering length\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 While X-ray scattering comes from interaction with the electron cloud, neutron scattering can occur in two ways; nuclear scattering and magnetic scattering. Magnetic scattering occurs when unpaired electrons in a material interact with the magnetic moment of the neutron, while nuclear scattering occurs due to interaction with the nucleus. In this work we will focus on nuclear scattering. The scattering of neutrons depends directly on the scattering potential between the nucleus and the neutron, denoted by V(r). This interaction potential acts on an extremely short range and falls to zero in the order of 10-15 m. Since this is orders of magnitudes shorter than the typical wavelength of neutrons, which is in the order of 10-10 m, we can essentially describe the nucleus as a pure point scatterer. The incoming wave of neutrons can be described by a planar wave: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})={\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i k}}{\i x}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (21)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 where k is the wavenumber {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ  \\F(2{\u960*},{\u955*})}}{\fldrslt }}
}, and x is the distance from the nucleus in the propagation direction. The scattered wave will be spherically symmetrical and can be described as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i s}})= \\F({\i b},{\i r}){\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{\i k}{\i r}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (22)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 where r is the radial distance to the nucleus, and b is the scattering length of the nucleus. The scattering length differs for each isotope in the periodic table and represents the strength of the neutron-nucleus interaction, the scattering length can basically be seen as the radius of the nucleus as experienced by the neutron. This gets intuitively clear when one thinks of the scattering length in the scattering cross section. The total scattering cross section is simply defined as the amount of neutrons scattered per second divided by the neutron flux: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i s}})= \\F({\f0 {\i N}{\i e}{\i u}{\i t}{\i r}{\i o}{\i n}{\i s}{\i s}{\i c}{\i a}{\i t}{\i t}{\i e}{\i r}{\i e}{\i d}{\i p}{\i e}{\i r}{\i s}{\i e}{\i c}{\i o}{\i n}{\i d}},{\u934*})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (23)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where {{\u934*}} is the neutron flux, which describes the incident neutrons per unit area per second. As suggested by the name, the scattering cross section represents an area, and can be interpreted as a measure of the size of the nucleus as experienced by the neutron. We can calculate the scattering cross section by starting from the differential scattering cross section: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i s}})= \\F({\f0 {\i N}{\i e}{\i u}{\i t}{\i r}{\i o}{\i n}{\i s}{\i s}{\i c}{\i a}{\i t}{\i t}{\i e}{\i r}{\i e}{\i d}{\i p}{\i e}{\i r}{\i s}{\i e}{\i c}{\i o}{\i n}{\i d}{\i i}{\i n}{\i t}{\i o}{\i s}{\i o}{\i l}{\i i}{\i d}{\i a}{\i n}{\i g}{\i l}{\i e}}{\u937*},{\u934*})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMdifferentialcrosssection}24{\*\bkmkend BMdifferentialcrosssection})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The total scattering cross section is related to the differential cross section by: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i s}})= \\i \\in(,, ) \\F({\i d}{\u963*},{\i d}{\u937*}){\i d}{\u937*}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (25)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 We can calculate the neutron flux by multiplying the probability density function of the neutron wave {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ |{\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})|\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
} by its velocity. For the incident neutron beam, this will simply be: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u934*}={\i v}|{\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})|\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})={\i v}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMneutronvelocity}26{\*\bkmkend BMneutronvelocity})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 While the scattered neutron flux can be expressed by: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u934*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i s}})={\i v}|{\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i s}})|\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})={\i v} \\F({\i b}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}),{\i r}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (27)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 To get to the amount of scattered neutrons per second that pass through an area dA we simply have to integrate over this area. Which leads to: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i v} \\F({\i b}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}),{\i r}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})){\i d}{\i A}={\i v}{\i b}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}){\i d}{\u937*}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (28)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 As this quantity describes the amount of neutrons scattered per second into a solid angle, it is exactly equal to the numerator in the differential cross section as seen in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMdifferentialcrosssection_ \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{?}}} so plugging this in we get: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ  \\F({\i d}{\u963*},{\i d}{\u937*}){\i d}{\u937*}= \\F({\i v}{\i b}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}){\i d}{\u937*},{\u934*}{\i d}{\u937*})={\i b}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (29)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where we used the fact that the neutron velocity is equal to the neutron flux as seen in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMneutronvelocity \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.26}{Neutron scattering length}}}}. To get to the total scattering cross section we have to integrate over all space in terms of the solid angle. As there are exactly {4{\u960*}} steradians in a circle, we obtain: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i s}})= \\i \\in(,, ){\i b}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}){\i d}{\u937*}=4{\u960*}{\i b}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (30)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 From which it follows that the scattering cross section forms a with a radius equal to the scattering length. In a sense, the scattering cross section describes the size of the nucleus as seen by the neutron, where the scattering length is the effective radius of the nucleus in this case. Note how the scattering length varies unsystematically across the periodic table and is not a single function of the mass number of the element. \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 2.1  Origin of neutron scattering lengths 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_hammouda \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{hammouda}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The neutron scattering length is often considered to vary randomly for each isotope. It is however possible to make a rough estimation of the neutron scattering length. We consider a neutron with an energy {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f0 {\i E}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 }}){{\i i}}}}{\fldrslt }}
} being scattered from an attractive square well potential at {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \u8722?{\f0 {\i V}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 }}){0}}}{\fldrslt }}
}. The well has a width of 2R, and a potential of {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f0 {\i V}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 }}){0}}}{\fldrslt }}
} \'bb {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f0 {\i E}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 }}){{\i i}}}}{\fldrslt }}
}. Starting from the Schr\u195?\u182?dinger equation we\u226?\u8364?\u8482?ve got: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ ( \\F({\u295*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}),2{\i m}){\f5\u8711*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})+{\f0 {\i V}}({\i r})){\u936*}({\i r})={\f0 {\i E}}{\u936*}({\i r})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (31)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Outside of the square well, the potential V(r) = 0, and so the solution to the equation becomes: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i s}\\,{\i o}{\i u}{\i t}}})= \\F({\plain sin}{{\i k}{\i r}},{\i k}{\i r})\u8722?{\i b} \\F({\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{\i k}{\i r}}),{\i r})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMoutsideexact}32{\*\bkmkend BMoutsideexact})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 where {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i k}= \\R(,2{\i m}{\f0 {\i E}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 }}){{\i i}}){\u295*}}}{\fldrslt }}
}. Inside the square well, the solution becomes: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i s}\\,{\i i}{\i n}}})={\i A} \\F({\plain sin}{{\i q}{\i r}},{\i q}{\i r})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (33)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 where the wave number q is described as {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i q}= \\R(,2{\i m}({\f0 {\i E}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 }}){{\i i}}+{\f0 {\i V}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 }}){0})){\u295*}}}{\fldrslt }}
}. Note that the factor {{\i k}{\i r}} \'ab 1 due to the very small neutron mass and we can therefore approximate equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMoutsideexact \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.32}{Origin of neutron scattering lengths 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_hammouda \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{hammouda}}}
]}}}} as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i s}\\,{\i o}{\i u}{\i t}}}){\u8776*}1\u8722? \\F({\i b},{\i r})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (34)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Since the wave function has to be completely continious over all space, we can use the boundary condition {|{\i r}|={\i R}} to get: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i s}\\,{\i o}{\i u}{\i t}}})={\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i s}\\,{\i i}{\i n}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (35)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 at the boundary, which leads to: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ 1\u8722? \\F({\i b},{\i R})={\i A} \\F({\plain sin}{{\i q}{\i R}},{\i q}{\i R})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (36)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 which can be rewritten to:\par
{\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i R}\u8722?{\i b}={\i A} \\F({\plain sin}{{\i q}{\i R}},{\i q}).}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMoriginSLDeq1}37{\*\bkmkend BMoriginSLDeq1})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Even at the derivative, these functions need to be continious, which gives us: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ  \\F({\i d},{\i d}{\i R})({\i R}\u8722?{\i b})= \\F({\i d},{\i d}{\i R}){\i A} \\F({\plain sin}{{\i q}{\i R}},{\i q}).}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (38)}\par
}{\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
1={\i A}{\plain cos}{\i q}{\i R}\tab{\b0 (39)}\par
}{\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i A}= \\F(1,{\plain cos}{\i q}{\i R})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMoriginSLDeq2}40{\*\bkmkend BMoriginSLDeq2})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Combining equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMoriginSLDeq1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.37}{Origin of neutron scattering lengths 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_hammouda \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{hammouda}}}
]}}}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMoriginSLDeq2 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.40}{Origin of neutron scattering lengths 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_hammouda \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{hammouda}}}
]}}}} gives us: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i R}\u8722?{\i b}= \\F(1,{\plain cos}{\i q}{\i R}) \\F({\plain sin}{\i q}{\i R},{\i q})\\,}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (41)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Rewriting the sine and cosine into a tangent: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i R}\u8722?{\i b}= \\F({\plain tan}{\i q}{\i R},{\i q})\\,}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (42)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 And finally, we can express the ratio b/R as a function of qR: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ  \\F({\i b},{\i R})=1\u8722? \\F({\plain tan}({\i q}{\i R}),{\i q}{\i R})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (43)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 This equation gives a first order estimate of the scattering length b. As can be seen in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMneutronscatteringlength \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.2}{The ratio b/R varies very sharply as a function of qR, meaning the scattering lenght b can move to a seemingly random value for each added nucleus.}}}}, b/R varies extremely sharply as a function of qR, which means that the scattering length can jump to a completely different value for each added nucleus. This is illustrated further by the highlight of hydrogen-1 (H) and deuterium (D) which have a large contrast in scattering length despite belonging to the same element. It can also be seen that the scattering length can be negative for certain isotopes, this correspondents to a negative phase shift upon scattering. \par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMneutronscatteringlength}2{\*\bkmkend BMneutronscatteringlength}: The ratio b/R varies very sharply as a function of qR, meaning the scattering lenght b can move to a seemingly random value for each added nucleus.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 The ratio b/R varies very sharply as a function of qR, meaning the scattering lenght b can move to a seemingly random value for each added nucleus." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 Note that this is merely an approximation, apart from the mathematical simplifications we have ignored both absorption and the magnetic component of the neutron scattering length. The imaginary part of the scattering length, which describes the absorption, is generally very low for neutrons which is in many cases a reason to opt for neutrons over X-rays as this allows the penetration of much larger samples. The magnetic component of the scattering length can be used with polarised neutron reflectivity in order to investigate magnetic properties of a material.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMSLD}2.2{\*\bkmkend BMSLD}  Scattering length density\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 While the total scattering power of a single nucleus can be well described in terms of scattering length, in order to get a good measure of the total scattering power of a material we also need to take the physical density into account. If the nuclei are more tightly packed, there will be more nuclei per unit volume to scatter from, which inevitably leads to stronger scattering. The total scattering power of a material is therefore described in terms of scattering length density (SLD), which can be calculated by summing the scattering lengths of each element in the material and dividing this by the volume of the unit cell 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_neutronbookmatrac \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{neutronbookmatrac}}}
]: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f0 {\i S}{\i L}{\i D}}= \\F( \\i \\su({\i i}=1,{\i N}, ){\i b}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}}),{\i V}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i m}}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMSLDBasic}44{\*\bkmkend BMSLDBasic})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i b}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} is the scattering length of each element and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i V}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i m}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} is the volume of the unit cell. Note how this does not need to be an actual unit cell as seen in crystallography, it is indeed a representative volume of the material which in principle can be completely amorphous. As an amorphous material does not have a well defined crystal to define a volume, it can be calculated using the bulk density of the unit cell and the molecular weight: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i V}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i m}})= \\F({\i M},{\u1009*}{\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i a}}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMvolumeunitcell}45{\*\bkmkend BMvolumeunitcell})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where {{\u1009*}} is the density of the material, {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i a}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} is the Avogadro constant. The scattering density of a composite material can then be calculated by putting equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMvolumeunitcell \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.45}{Scattering length density}}}} into equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMSLDBasic \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.44}{Scattering length density}}}}: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f0 {\i S}{\i L}{\i D}}= \\F({\u1009*}{\i N}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i a}}) \\i \\su({\i i}=1,{\i N}, ){{\i b}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}, \\i \\su({\i i}=1,{\i N}, ){{\i b}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}{\i M}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (46)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The scattering density relates directly to the refractive index of neutrons as provided in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMrefractiveindexapprox \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.11}{Neutron scattering}}}}, rewritten here for clarity: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i n}=1\u8722? \\F({\u955*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}),2{\u960*}){\u8901*}{\f0 {\i S}{\i L}{\i D}}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (47)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Because of this linear relationship between SLD and refractive index, the SLD is often considered to be a direct analog to the refractive index.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  Choice of materials\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The materials that are being used in neutron multilayers are primarily based on the SLD of these materials. The imaginary component of the SLD needs to be as low as possible for both materials as this component describes absorption. Meanwhile, for the real component we need a high contrast in SLD, as this equates to a large contrast in scattering potential as described in chapter ABOVE. To illustrate, the real and imaginary parts of a set of materials are plotted in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMSLDchoice \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.3}{A selection of materials with their scattering lengths are plotted for low imaginary values, a system with Ni/Ti offers a large contrast in the real SLD with low values for the imaginary part.}}}}. As this is a prerequisite, we only look at materials with low imaginary SLD here (several orders of magnitude lower than the real part). Now we simply need to pick two materials that have a large difference in the real part of the SLD. Beryllium may seem like a reasonable candidate on paper, but since it undergoes nuclear reactions upon neutron irradiation, nickel is a better material for neutron multilayers. Therefore the combination of nickel and titanium is the usual option, as highlighted figure. Note that some materials with intermediate values are emitted in order to increase readability.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMSLDchoice}3{\*\bkmkend BMSLDchoice}: A selection of materials with their scattering lengths are plotted for low imaginary values, a system with Ni/Ti offers a large contrast in the real SLD with low values for the imaginary part.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "3 A selection of materials with their scattering lengths are plotted for low imaginary values, a system with Ni/Ti offers a large contrast in the real SLD with low values for the imaginary part." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 4  Neutron scattering in reciprocal space\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 It can be extremely convenient in neutron scattering to describe phenomena in reciprocal space instead of real space. This convenience arises from the fact that the diffraction pattern is directly related to the reciprocal space of the SLD-profile of the material, so by becoming familiar with this description, one can tell a lot about the structural properties of a given multilayer simply from a glance at the obtained diffraction pattern 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_shinjo_takada_1987 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{shinjo\\s\\do5({\fs16 t})akada\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})987}}}
]. The reciprocal space corresponds to the Fourier transform of real space, and is often also called q-space or Fourier space. \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 4.1  Reciprocal space\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 To understand the diffraction pattern in reciprocal space we imagine an incoming neutron wave that scatters upon an interface as shown in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMscatteringqspace \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.4}{a) An incoming neutron wave with incident and refracted wave vector {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} scatters upon an interface. The scattering vector {{{\i q}}} is obtained by {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}={{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})\u8722?{{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and is in the {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} direction for specular scattering. b) The Ewald sphere construction can be used to illustrate for which incidence angles a diffraction peak can be found}}}}a. The incident and scattered wave vector are denoted by {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} respectivally. The scattering vector is the described by the vector {{{\i q}}} and can be expressed as {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}={{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})\u8722?{{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
}. From geometry, we can see that: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\plain sin}{ \\F(2{\u920*},2)}= \\F(0.5{{\i q}},{{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (48)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where we can use {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})=2{\u960*}/{\u955*}}}{\fldrslt }}
} to show: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i q}= \\F(4{\u960*},{\u955*}){\plain sin}{\u920*}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (49)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Which is the equation that is generally used to convert from q-space to {{\u920*}}. The points in q-space where diffraction peaks are found can be illustrated using an Ewald sphere construction, as shown in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMscatteringqspace \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.4}{a) An incoming neutron wave with incident and refracted wave vector {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} scatters upon an interface. The scattering vector {{{\i q}}} is obtained by {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}={{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})\u8722?{{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and is in the {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} direction for specular scattering. b) The Ewald sphere construction can be used to illustrate for which incidence angles a diffraction peak can be found}}}}b. The incoming wave vector {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} is drawn with its tip drawn at the scattering site. A sphere is drawn around this vector, and a diffracted beam will be formed if the drawn sphere intersects with an interface in reciprocal space. From this, we can see how a diffraction peak can be observed at the given incidence angle {2{\u920*}}, corresponding to the third peak in q-space. We can also note how the diffraction peaks are equidistant to each other with a distance of {2{\u960*}}/{{\u955*}}. During a specular neutron reflectivity experiment, a scan is made in the {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} direction by varying the incidence angle {{\u920*}}. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMscatteringqspace}4{\*\bkmkend BMscatteringqspace}: a) An incoming neutron wave with incident and refracted wave vector {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} scatters upon an interface. The scattering vector {{{\i q}}} is obtained by {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}={{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})\u8722?{{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and is in the {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} direction for specular scattering. b) The Ewald sphere construction can be used to illustrate for which incidence angles a diffraction peak can be found}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "4 a) An incoming neutron wave with incident and refracted wave vector {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} scatters upon an interface. The scattering vector {{{\i q}}} is obtained by {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}={{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})\u8722?{{\i k}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and is in the {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i q}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} direction for specular scattering. b) The Ewald sphere construction can be used to illustrate for which incidence angles a diffraction peak can be found" \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\column
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb360 \fi0 4.2  Fourier expansion for an ideal multilayer\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The intensity profile that is obtained by experiment is directly dependent of the SLD-profile in the probed direction, as explained in subchapter {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMneutronscattering \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.1}{Neutron scattering}}}}. For a perfect multilayer with abrupt interfaces, the SLD-profile in the depth direction will have the form of a square wave. The obtained intensity profile can then be explained by the Fourier transform of this profile. The SLD-profile can be written as an infinite series of cosines and sines 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_kittel \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{kittel}}}
]: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i g}({\i z})={\i a}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})+ \\i \\su({\i n}=1,{\u8734*}, )[{\i a}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i n}}){\plain cos}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})+{\i b}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i n}}){\plain sin}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})]}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (50)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 As an example, we take such an SLD profile for a multilayer with two distinct layers having a thickness of 1 nm each without any interface imperfections. The amplitude of the SLD is chosen to be equal to 1 {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \u195?\u8230?\\s\\up5({\fs16 \u8722?2})}}{\fldrslt }}
}, as can be seen by the square wave in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfourier \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.5}{The interface width can be described as an infinite series of a sine waves. The first three components of the Fourier series are shown in this figure, summing all Fourier components will eventually result in the sketched square wave.}}}}. The first term {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i a}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})}}{\fldrslt }}
} can be easily found by evaluating the SLD-function over one period. The resulting integral can be found using easy geometry, as the integral simply equals the total area under the curve. For the first period, the total area evidently equals zero: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i a}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})= \\i (0,{\u923*}, ){\i g}({\i z}){\i d}{\i z}=0}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (51)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The terms for {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i a}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i n}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} can be found in a similar way: {\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i a}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i n}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ = \\F(1,0.5{\u923*}) \\i (0,{\u923*}, ){\i g}({\i z}){\plain cos}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 (52)}\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ = \\F(2,{\u923*}) \\i (0,0.5{\u923*}, ){\plain cos}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})\u8722? \\F(2,{\u923*}) \\i (0.5{\u923*},{\u923*}, ){\plain cos}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 (53)}\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ = \\F(4,{\u923*}) \\i (0,0.5{\u923*}, ){\plain cos}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})=0}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 (54)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Note how all even Fourier components dissapear, this is a direct result from the fact that both layers in the multilayer have an equal thickness. The ratio between the thicknesses of the individual layers in the bilayer is an important parameter and is usually denoted as {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u915*}={\i l}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i a}})/{\i l}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} where {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i l}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i a}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i l}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i b}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} denote the thickness of each layer in the bilayer. In general it follows from the Fourier composition that for a {{\u915*}}-value of {1/{\i m}}, every {{\i m}}\rquote th component will dissapear. In this example where the layers are equally thick we get {{\u915*}=0.5}, meaning every second component will dissapear. This leaves us with a series of sines: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i g}({\i z})= \\i \\su({\i n}=1,{\u8734*}, ){\i b}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i n}}){\plain sin}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (55)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Evaluating the sine gives us: {\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i b}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i n}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ = \\F(1,0.5{\u923*}) \\i (0,{\u923*}, ){\i g}({\i z}){\plain sin}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 (56)}\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ = \\F(2,{\u923*}) \\i (0,0.5{\u923*}, ){\plain sin}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})\u8722? \\F(2,{\u923*}) \\i (0.5{\u923*},{\u923*}, ){\plain sin}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 (57)}\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ = \\F(4,{\u923*}) \\i (0,0.5{\u923*}, ){\plain sin}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 (58)}\par
\pard\plain\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tql\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ = \\F(2,{\i n}{\u960*})(1\u8722?{\plain cos}{\i n}{\u960*})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab{\b0 (59)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Which can be reduced to: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i b}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i n}})={}}{\fldrslt }}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{cases\} ... \\end\{cases\}}]\par
}\tab{\b0 (\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 60)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 This leaves us with our final Fourier series for a square wave: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i g}({\i z})= \\i \\su({\i n}=1,{\u8734*}, ) \\F(4,{\i n}{\u960*}){\plain sin}( \\F(2{\u960*},{\u923*}){\i n}{\i z})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMfouriersum}61{\*\bkmkend BMfouriersum})}\par
}{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMfourier}5{\*\bkmkend BMfourier}: The interface width can be described as an infinite series of a sine waves. The first three components of the Fourier series are shown in this figure, summing all Fourier components will eventually result in the sketched square wave.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "5 The interface width can be described as an infinite series of a sine waves. The first three components of the Fourier series are shown in this figure, summing all Fourier components will eventually result in the sketched square wave." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 This result is illustrated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfourier \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.5}{The interface width can be described as an infinite series of a sine waves. The first three components of the Fourier series are shown in this figure, summing all Fourier components will eventually result in the sketched square wave.}}}}. The square wave illustrates the actual SLD-profile, while the sinusoidal waves are the Fourier components as described in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfouriersum \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.61}{Fourier expansion for an ideal multilayer}}}}, in this illustration only the first three components are shown. The amplitudes of the peaks of the measured signal in a scattering experiment are directly proportional to the amplitudes of the Fourier components described here. This makes it clear how a higher contrast in scattering potential results in a stronger signal. A similar analysis is valid for interfaces with interface imperfections, where the transition form one layer to another is more gradual. While the resulting Fourier components will be different from equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfouriersum \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.61}{Fourier expansion for an ideal multilayer}}}}, it can be seen from the described example in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfourier \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.5}{The interface width can be described as an infinite series of a sine waves. The first three components of the Fourier series are shown in this figure, summing all Fourier components will eventually result in the sketched square wave.}}}} that the first component of the Fourier series is very sensitive to the contrast in SLD between the layers, while the other components will be more sensitive to the interface width. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter {\*\bkmkstart BMmultilayeroptics}5{\*\bkmkend BMmultilayeroptics}\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Multilayer and supermirror optics\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 1  Reflectivity from different interfaces\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 To get to the reflectivity for multilayer instruments, we will start with the simplest case of reflectivity from a substrate. After that, we will expand this to the case of a single layer on top of a substrate, followed by a multilayer. \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.1  Substrate\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Reflectivity on a single substrate describes the simplest form of Fresnel reflectivity, which is covered in subsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfresneltheory \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.1.1}{Fresnel reflection}}}}. The measured intensity can then be expressed using the fraction of reflected intensity as given in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMintensityfresnel \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {2.19}{Fresnel reflection}}}}, and multiplying it with the incident intensity {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i I}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})}}{\fldrslt }}
}: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i I}={\i I}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})[ \\F({\i q}\u8722? \\R(,{\i q}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})\u8722?{\i q}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i c}})),{\i q}+ \\R(,{\i q}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})\u8722?{\i q}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i c}})))]\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMtotalintensitysubstrate}1{\*\bkmkend BMtotalintensitysubstrate})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The resulting intensity profile can be seen in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsimulated_substrate \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.1}{A simulation of the reflectance for a single layer of nickel with a thickness of 30 nm on a Si substrate and a Neutron wavelength of 5 \u195?\u8230?.}}}}, where a neutron beam with a wavelength of 5 \u195?\u8230? reflects upon a silicon substrate. \par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMsimulated_substrate}1{\*\bkmkend BMsimulated_substrate}: A simulation of the reflectance for a single layer of nickel with a thickness of 30 nm on a Si substrate and a Neutron wavelength of 5 \u195?\u8230?.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 A simulation of the reflectance for a single layer of nickel with a thickness of 30 nm on a Si substrate and a Neutron wavelength of 5 \u195?\u8230?." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb360 \fi0 1.2  Single layer\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Now if we add a single layer to the substrate, we will also have reflections from the finite thickness of this layer. The resulting reflection can most clearly be understood by tracing an incoming beam, as shown in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsinglelayersketch \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.2}{An incoming neutron beam hits a single thin film from the substrate.}}}}. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMsinglelayersketch}2{\*\bkmkend BMsinglelayersketch}: An incoming neutron beam hits a single thin film from the substrate.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 An incoming neutron beam hits a single thin film from the substrate." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 The incoming beam partly reflects at the surface, while another part gets transmitted through the top layer and reflected at the substrate interface. The phase difference between the two transmitted beams depend on the optical path, and it follows from the figure that this can be described by: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\u916*}=({\i A}{\i B}+{\i B}{\i C}){\i n}\u8722?{\i A}{\i D}\tab{\b0 (2)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where n is the refractive index of the layer. From simple geometry in the figure, it also follows that the path difference can be described as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u916*}=2{\i d}{\plain sin}({\u920*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i t}})){\u8776*}2{\i d} \\R(,{\u920*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})\u8722?{\u920*}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i c}}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (3)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 From the left-hand side, we can see that this is analogue to the Bragg equation, where a maximum occurs whenever the phase difference is a multiple of the wavelength, or when {{\u916*}={\i m}{\u955*}}. Filling this into the right-hand side, we get with some re-writing: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u920*}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i m}})={\u920*}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i c}})+( \\F({\u955*},2{\i d})){\i m}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMreflectionsingle}4{\*\bkmkend BMreflectionsingle})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Such a reflection is simulated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsimulated_singlelayer \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.3}{A simulation of the reflectance for a single layer of nickel with a thickness of 30 nm on a Si substrate and a Neutron wavelength of 5 \u195?\u8230?.}}}}. Where a neutron-beam is reflected from a single layer of nickel with a thickness of 30 nm. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMsimulated_singlelayer}3{\*\bkmkend BMsimulated_singlelayer}: A simulation of the reflectance for a single layer of nickel with a thickness of 30 nm on a Si substrate and a Neutron wavelength of 5 \u195?\u8230?.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "3 A simulation of the reflectance for a single layer of nickel with a thickness of 30 nm on a Si substrate and a Neutron wavelength of 5 \u195?\u8230?." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 It follows from equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMreflectionsingle \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.4}{Single layer}}}}, that the spacing between these maximi that can be observed are inversely dependent on the thickness of the layer. Meaning that a thicker layer leads to a closer spacing between the fringes while a very thin layer will see these fringes very far apart.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.3  Multilayers\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We can expand this concept as well to multilayers. The multilayers in this work consist of a certain number of so-called bilayers, which is a repeated set of two layers that get repeated throughout the stack. A schematic drawing of such a multilayer is seen in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMmultilayersketch \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.4}{A schematic overview showing reflection from a multilayer. For pedagogical purposes, only one reflected beam is drawn per bilayer. In reality, reflection occurs for every layer in the bilayer.}}}} {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMmultilayersketch}4{\*\bkmkend BMmultilayersketch}: A schematic overview showing reflection from a multilayer. For pedagogical purposes, only one reflected beam is drawn per bilayer. In reality, reflection occurs for every layer in the bilayer.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "4 A schematic overview showing reflection from a multilayer. For pedagogical purposes, only one reflected beam is drawn per bilayer. In reality, reflection occurs for every layer in the bilayer." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 As can be observed in figure, the difference in optical path between the reflected beams depends on the total thickness of one bilayer. The total thickness of one bilayer is known as the period, and is denoted with {{\u923*}} The position of the fringes that arise from the periodicities can be described in a similar way as equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMreflectionsingle \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.4}{Single layer}}}}, but where we use the bilayer thickness instead of the individual layer thickness: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u920*}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i m}})={\u920*}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i c}})+( \\F({\u955*},2{\u923*})){\i m}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMreflectionmulti}5{\*\bkmkend BMreflectionmulti})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Apart from these maxima, which are known as Bragg peaks, can we also describe so-called Kiessig fringes between the peaks. These fringes arise from the total thickness of the multilayer. Assuming there is no damping due to roughness for example, we can observe N-2 of these Kiessig fringes between the maxima from the layer periodicity. This is also shown in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsimulatedmultilayer \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.5}{A simulation of the reflectance for a multilayer system consisting of 12 bilayers of Ni and Ti, with a total period of 50 nm.}}}}, where clear Kiessig are observed between the larger Bragg peaks. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMsimulatedmultilayer}5{\*\bkmkend BMsimulatedmultilayer}: A simulation of the reflectance for a multilayer system consisting of 12 bilayers of Ni and Ti, with a total period of 50 nm.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "5 A simulation of the reflectance for a multilayer system consisting of 12 bilayers of Ni and Ti, with a total period of 50 nm." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\column
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 2  Interface imperfections\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 So far, we have assumed reflection from ideal interfaces. In reality however, interfaces are not perfectly flat or abrupt. Meaning the interfaces have a certain thickness in the normal direction, this thickness is called the interface width and is denoted by {{\u963*}}. In reality, the interface width arises from two different physical factors. The abruptness of the interface, which arise from factors such as interdiffusion and intermixing, and the interfacial roughness. These two physical factors behave independently, a perfectly flat sample can still contain intermixing while a rough sample still can be perfectly abrupt on a local level. The total interface width can therefore be considered as the sum of these effects, and can thus be expressed as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})={\u963*}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i d}})+{\u963*}\\s\\up({\fs16 2,{\i r}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (6)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i d}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} describes the interface width due to the intermixing and interdiffusion and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i r}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} describes the interface width due to the roughness. Note how the exact deviation from a perfect interface varies on a local level, the interface width is therefore defined as a square root averaged value over the probed interface. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 If we consider the SLD-profile of such imperfect interfaces, it follows that the effects of intermixing and interfacial roughness are indistinguishable from each other in the normal direction. Both factors lead to a more gradual transition of SLD from one interface to the other. This loss of an abrupt transition leads to a reduction of specular reflectivity. In the case of interfacial roughness, part of the incident beam will be scattered into non-specular directions while intermixing leads to an increase in transmission. These different causes of interface width can therefore be observed by doing non-specular scans, but in specular reflectivity these effects are indistinguishable from each other, as is illustrated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMinterfacewidthgradient \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.6}{While intermixing and surface roughness are distinct phenomena, they are indistinguishable in the SLD profile normal to the interface.}}}}. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMinterfacewidthgradient}6{\*\bkmkend BMinterfacewidthgradient}: While intermixing and surface roughness are distinct phenomena, they are indistinguishable in the SLD profile normal to the interface.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "6 While intermixing and surface roughness are distinct phenomena, they are indistinguishable in the SLD profile normal to the interface." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 A typical distribution of the interface profile in the normal direction is given by the error function: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i g}({\i z})={\f0 {\i e}{\i r}{\i f}}( \\F({\i z}, \\R(,2){\u963*})).}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (7)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Taking the derivative of the error function we get a Gaussian distribution: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i f}({\i z})= \\F({\i d}{\i g},{\i d}{\i z})= \\F(1, \\R(,2{\u960*}{\u963*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}))){\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 \u8722? \\F(1,2)( \\F({\i z},{\u963*}))\\s\\up4({\fs13 2})})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (8)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 If we take the Fourier transform of a Gaussian we get another Gaussian. So the attenuation factor associated with our Fresnel equations can be described as {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\f5\u771\'7e}{\i f}({\i z})={\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 \u8722? \\F({\i s}\\s\\up4({\fs13 2}){\u963*}\\s\\up4({\fs13 2}),2)( \\F(4{\u960*}{\u963*}{\plain sin}{\u920*},{\u955*}))\\s\\up4({\fs13 2})})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (9)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 This factor is known as the Debye-Waller factor and is commonly used to simulate imperfect interfaces. From this factor and combining it with Fresnel equations, we find that the reflectivity of a multilayer can be described as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i R}={\i R}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0}){\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 \u8722?(2{\u960*}{\i m} \\F({\u963*},{\u923*}))})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (10)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Note that the reflectivity of a sample depends exponentially squared on the interface width. So even a modest improvement of the interface width has a large impact on the total reflectivity. The influence of the multilayer period can be explained by the fact that a multilayer with a smaller period has a larger fraction of the layer consisting of interfaces. The smaller the period, the more important the quality of the interface therefore becomes for a good reflectivity performance.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  Off-specular scattering\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 So far we have only considered the specular part of the reflection, where the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of refraction. For an ideal interface, the scattering potential in the in-plane direction is always constant, meaning all scattering will be in the specular direction normal to the plane of incidence. In the case of surface roughness however, local differences occur in the chemical composition of sample in the in-plane direction. This means that the parallel components of the neutron beam experience a potential barrier, leading to partial reflection in the in-plane direction. This phenomenon, where scattering occurs outside of the specular direction is is named off-specular scattering. This is further illustrated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMoff_specularsketch \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.7}{An incoming neutron beam reflects from the sample and reaches the detector, the specular signal can be found in the plane of incidence while the off-specular signal is perpendicular to the plane of incidence.}}}}, where an incoming neutron beam reflects from the sample and reaches the detector, the specular signal can be found in the plane of incidence while the off-specular signal is perpendicular to the plane of incidence. Since off-specular scattering probes the in-plane direction of the interface, one can obtain a lot of information of the roughness profile of the interfaces. Interfacial roughness for example leads strong scattering potential barriers in the off-specular direction, and therefore increases the off-specular signal. Intermixing however leads to a much more gradual contrasts in the in-plane direction and contributes therefore much less to the off-specular signal. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMoff_specularsketch}7{\*\bkmkend BMoff_specularsketch}: An incoming neutron beam reflects from the sample and reaches the detector, the specular signal can be found in the plane of incidence while the off-specular signal is perpendicular to the plane of incidence.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "7 An incoming neutron beam reflects from the sample and reaches the detector, the specular signal can be found in the plane of incidence while the off-specular signal is perpendicular to the plane of incidence." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 There are several parameters that influence the off-specular signal in a multilayer. The most important ones that we will describe here are the cross correlation length, the transverse correlation length and the Hurtz parameter. The cross correlation length of a multilayer describes how closely correlated the roughness profile is between the subsequent interfaces within the multilayer. This parameter is particularly interesting for this work, as correlated roughness means that deviations from an ideal layer at the interface repeat themselves for subsequent layers, meaning that such deviations may increase with each newly deposited layer. This phenomenon, which is called accumulated roughness, is a particular challenge when depositing multilayers with many periods as is conventional with neutron supermirrors for example.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Correlated roughness in a multilayer can be detected in the off-specular signal by looking at the so-called Bragg sheets. When the interface profile is completely uncorrelated, the off-specular signal scatters into different directions for each layer within the sample, meaning the off-specular signal will be spread out over the entire reciprocal plane. For completely correlated layers, the off-specular signal is scattered into the same direction for each layer. As the periodicity of this interface profile is the same as the multilayer period, this signal will be focused on in perpendicular sheets around the Bragg peaks of the specular signal. This is illustrated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMcorrelated_vs_diffuse \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.8}{An incoming neutron beam reflects from the sample and reaches the detector, the specular signal can be found in the plane of incidence while the off-specular signal is perpendicular to the plane of incidence..}}}}\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMcorrelated_vs_diffuse}8{\*\bkmkend BMcorrelated_vs_diffuse}: An incoming neutron beam reflects from the sample and reaches the detector, the specular signal can be found in the plane of incidence while the off-specular signal is perpendicular to the plane of incidence..}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "8 An incoming neutron beam reflects from the sample and reaches the detector, the specular signal can be found in the plane of incidence while the off-specular signal is perpendicular to the plane of incidence.." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 The latteral correlation length is sometimes described as the cut-off for the length scale where an interface begins to look smooth. The absolute magnitude of the interface width can very well be low, but the interface still looks very rough if the latteral correlation length is low enough. This is illustrated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMcorrelationlength \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {3.9}{While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth.}}}}, the latteral correlation length basically describes the typical distance between the peaks in this figure.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMcorrelationlength}9{\*\bkmkend BMcorrelationlength}: While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "9 While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Finally the Hurtz parameter describes the jaggyness of the interfaces in the sample. A sample with a Hurtz parameter of 1.0 looks relatively smooth where the interfaces gets more jaggy the closer the Hurtz parameters gets to zero. This factor shows mainly in the shape of the off-specular signal. A more ideal sample with low jaggyness shows a more Gaussian distribution in the off-specular reflectivity, where this shape becomes very Lorentzian for very jagged samples.\par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter {\*\bkmkstart BMmultilayerdepositions}6{\*\bkmkend BMmultilayerdepositions}\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Multilayer Depositions\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 In order to create high quality multilayers a proper understanding of the growth technique is necessary. In this chapter we will explain the techniques used to grow the samples discussed in this work, starting by an introduction on magnetron sputter deposition itself.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Magnetron sputter deposition\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 One of the most popular techniques to grow multilayers is physical vapor deposition (PVD) 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_alvarez_garcia_martin_lopez_santos_rico_ferrer_cotrino_gonzalez_elipe_palmero_2014 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{alvarez\\s\\do5({\fs16 g})arcia\\s\\do5({\fs16 m})artin\\s\\do5({\fs16 l})opez\\s\\do5({\fs16 s})antos\\s\\do5({\fs16 r})ico\\s\\do5({\fs16 f})errer\\s\\do5({\fs16 c})otrino\\s\\do5({\fs16 g})onzalez\\s\\do5({\fs16 e})lipe\\s\\do5({\fs16 p})almero\\s\\do5({\fs16 2})014}}}
]. Magnetron sputter deposition is a common type of PVD, which is used to grow the samples in this work. The basic working principle behind sputtering is intuitively quite simple. A steady flow of noble gas is led into a vacuum chamber. Meanwhile, a bias is applied to the sputtering target, which contains the material that will be deposited upon the substrate. Stray electrons near the target are accelerated towards the substrate due to the electric field that is present, colliding with neutral atoms from inlet sputtering gas on the way. If these electrons have gained sufficient energy upon collision, it may knock off an electron from the sputtering gas, converting it onto a positively charged ion 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_ohring \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{ohring}}}
]: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\i e}}\\s\\up5({\fs16 \u8722?})+{{\i A}{\i r}}{\u8594*}2{{\i e}}\\s\\up5({\fs16 \u8722?})+{{\i A}{\i r}}\\s\\up5({\fs16 +})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (1)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Note how two additional electrons are released during this ionization process, these too are accelerated by the electric field and can bombard additional gas atoms generating even more free electrons. Meanwhile the ionized atoms, which are positively charged, will be attracted to the negatively charged sputtering target. Upon collision, both target atoms as well as secondary electrons are ejected. The secondary electrons will be accelerated and ionize even more neutral gas atoms while part the ejected target atoms will land on the substrate surface, slowly creating a uniform layer of the target material. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMmagnetronsputtering}1{\*\bkmkend BMmagnetronsputtering}: A simplified sketch of magnetron sputtering. Incoming Argon ions collide upon the sputtering target, knocking out target atoms which in their turn form a new layer of the material on the substrate.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 A simplified sketch of magnetron sputtering. Incoming Argon ions collide upon the sputtering target, knocking out target atoms which in their turn form a new layer of the material on the substrate." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 This state of ionized gas is known as a plasma, and is generally considered as an own state of matter. Upon the electron excitation of the sputtering gas, photons will be emitted which gives the visible plasma a visible glow. In order for the plasma to be sustained, there has to be a sufficient amount of collisions between electrons and sputtering atoms. So the secondary electrons are very important to sustain the plasma. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_ohring \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{ohring}}}
].\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 In order to maximize the amount of secondary electrons that can be used for the ionization process magnets are placed behind the target material. The subsequent Lorentz force on the electron provides a path for the electrons to follow. A typical orientation of these magnets is shown in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMmagnetronsketch \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {4.2}{A cross section of a magnetron used in sputter deposition. The resulting magnetic field B traps secondary electrons which is sustain the plasma.}}}}, where the magnetic field is orientated radially above the target surface. The resulting path will follow a direction according to {{{\i E}}{{\i B}}}, forming circular trajectory above the target surface. Given the preferential status of this path for the electrons, the ionization rate will be higher in this region leading to a higher plasma density. It is for this reason that a circular erosion zone appears on used targets.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMmagnetronsketch}2{\*\bkmkend BMmagnetronsketch}: A cross section of a magnetron used in sputter deposition. The resulting magnetic field B traps secondary electrons which is sustain the plasma.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 A cross section of a magnetron used in sputter deposition. The resulting magnetic field B traps secondary electrons which is sustain the plasma." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\column
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 2  Ion Assistance\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In order to optimize the growth process and create smooth and abrupt layers, it is important to consider the energy of the incoming adatoms on the multilayer that is being deposited. When the adatom energy is too low, the surface mobility will be very limited meaning incoming adatoms will stick directly to their landing sites. Because of this, any deviation in the film surface will not be evened out but instead will be repeated. Such growth will therefore lead to rough surfaces with a lot of accumulated roughness 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_thesis_fredrik \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{thesis\\s\\do5({\fs16 f})redrik}}}
].\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Increasing the adatom energy will increase the surface mobility, adatoms that land on the surface can migrate to another spot, smoothening out the deposited layer. It is therefore important for a smooth film, to increase the adatom mobility. One way to do this, is to use the ions that are available in the plasma during film growth 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_thesis_kenneth \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{thesis\\s\\do5({\fs16 k})enneth}}}
]. By applying a negative bias on the substrate, there will be a significant potential drop towards the substrate meaning the ions will be accelerated towards the film. By controlling the bias on the substrate, the ion-atom ratio can be controlled such that there is enough energy per adatom to enable surface migration at the landing sites. These different cases of film growth are illustrated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMlayergrowth \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {4.3}{The left side shows film growth with low adatom energy, adatoms stick directly to their landing sites leading to a rough surface. The right-hand side shows higher adatom mobility where surface migration is possible, ions are attracted from the plasma assisting the growth process.}}}}. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMlayergrowth}3{\*\bkmkend BMlayergrowth}: The left side shows film growth with low adatom energy, adatoms stick directly to their landing sites leading to a rough surface. The right-hand side shows higher adatom mobility where surface migration is possible, ions are attracted from the plasma assisting the growth process.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "3 The left side shows film growth with low adatom energy, adatoms stick directly to their landing sites leading to a rough surface. The right-hand side shows higher adatom mobility where surface migration is possible, ions are attracted from the plasma assisting the growth process." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 However, the high-energy bombardments of ions can lead to intermixing at the interfaces, meaning particles of the film will be displaced into the substrate. Using a too high energy therefore leads to an increase in intermixing, which essentially has the same effect as regular roughness. It is therefore important to find a good balance between the smoothening effect due to surface migration at high adatom energies, and the lack of intermixing that comes with low adatom energies. The plasma can be guided using a magnetic field near the substrate, such that a lower ion energy is required for surface migration, there will however still remain intermixing between the two layers.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 While this intermixing effect is mainly limited to the first atomic layer, the multilayers in this work have an interface width that is roughly in the order of the atomic spacing. Such small displacements can therefore lead to a significant increase in the total interface width and should therefore be avoided.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 In order to achieve this, a so called split-bias scheme is used during the growth of the deposited multilayers. In this set-up, an initial layer is grown with a low bias at the substrate. This layer initial layer is therefore grown with a very low adatom energy, leading to relative rough growth at a lower density, but without any intermixing. After an initial part of the layer is grown using this low-bias scheme, the bias is increased in order to allow for surface migration when the adatom reaches the surface, smoothening the rest of the layer. While there will be intermixing at this higher bias, the intermixing will be limited to the initially grown layer which is the same material. The initially grown layer therefore acts as a buffer layer, to protect the lower layer against intermixing. This process with an alternating bias scheme is repeated throughout the deposition of the entire multilayer, leading to smooth and abrupt surfaces 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_thesis_fredrik \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{thesis\\s\\do5({\fs16 f})redrik}}}
].\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C co-deposition\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 When growing multilayers using magnetron sputtering, nanocrystallites tend to form throughout the sample. These crystallites lead to rather faceted interfaces between the layers which can contribute to an increased interface width. Another risk is how intermetallics may form between the layers, which also contributes to an decrease in the abruptness between the layers. Furthermore, roughness patterns at the interface tend to be replicated leading to roughness accumulation. It would therefore be beneficial to eliminate the formation of crystallites, growing an amorphous multilayer instead. This can be established by co-depositing {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C during the growth process. The addition of boron to the layer inhibits the formation of crystallites, leading to X-Ray amorphous layers throughout the entire multilayer. Using a continuous deposition of {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C during the growth process, boron is added through the entire multilayer. For neutron multilayers it is important to consider that the the boron-10 isotope, which is present in natural boron, absorbs neutrons. The boron-11 isotope however is virtually completely transparent to neutrons, it is for this reason that an isotope enriched {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C target is used during the deposition. The power to the {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C magnetron is constant during the entire deposition, resulting in a stable {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C-flux during film growth. Note that the addition of {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C leads to a dilution of the SLD-contrast between the interfaces, adding too much {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C therefore leads to a reduction in reflectivity. The power that is used for the {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C-target is therefore tweaked such that it is high enough to make the entire sample is amorphous, but not increased any further to prevent unnecessary dilution in SLD-contrast between the interfaces. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 4  Reducing interface width\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 When designing high-performance neutron multilayers, it is essential to consider the interface width in the sample. A combination of the techniques above is used to minimize the total interface width as much as possible. The co-deposition of {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C removes all crystallinity of the multilayer. However, the adatom mobility during deposition is also significantly reduced leading to a strong accumulation of interface width throughout the layer. A high ion-assistance is therefore needed to increase the adatom mobility enough to allow for surface diffusion. These adatom energies however lead to a strong intermixing between the interfaces, making it essential to combine the {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C co-deposition with the split-bias ion-assistance technique. The resulting deposition scheme therefore incorporates the split-bias scheme as described in chapter 4.2. Where an initial buffer layer is grown with a low bias, followed by the rest{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C of the layer grown with a higher substrate bias. During this entire process, {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\up5({\fs16 11})}}{\fldrslt }}
}B{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ \\s\\do5({\fs16 4})}}{\fldrslt }}
}C is co-deposited constantly throughout the multilayer to get inhibit the formation of crystallites. The bias used during the process needs to be fine-tuned, such that intermixing does not exceed the initial buffer layer, while being high enough to allow for surface diffusion.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 5  Deposition system at Petra III\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 I will write some stuff about this deposition system, but should expand my knowledge on Petra III a bit first.) \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter \par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Instrumental aspects\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 In order to obtain structural parameters for the samples, the experimental reflectivity curves need to be fitted to mathematical simulations for each sample. There are several possible mathematical descriptions that can be used, within this work there are two different descriptions that are applied based on the software that has been used. Specular reflectivity is used described using the Paratt recursion formula, whilst the off-specular simulation is described using the Born-approximation. Both of these formalisms are described in this chapter.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Neutron Reflectometry\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Neutron reflectometry is a popular technique to investigate structural properties of thin film multilayers. The physical principles behind this technique are described in chapter 2. There are two distinct ways to measure the scattering profile. The reflectivity in the reciprocal q-space can be calculated using the following expression: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i q}= \\F(4{\u960*},{\u955*}){\plain sin}{\u920*}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (1)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Traditionally the incidence angle is changed in order to obtain the needed values for q. A challenge with this technique is how the spot size becomes infinitely large as the incidence angle approaches zero. A large portion of the beam does therefore not reach the sample, leading to a so-called beam overspill effect. This effect can be observed in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMrawmeasurement \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {5.1}{A simplified sketch of magnetron sputtering. Incoming Argon ions heat the sputtering target, knocking out target atoms which in their turn form a new layer of the material on the substrate.}}}}. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMrawmeasurement}1{\*\bkmkend BMrawmeasurement}: A simplified sketch of magnetron sputtering. Incoming Argon ions heat the sputtering target, knocking out target atoms which in their turn form a new layer of the material on the substrate.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 A simplified sketch of magnetron sputtering. Incoming Argon ions heat the sputtering target, knocking out target atoms which in their turn form a new layer of the material on the substrate." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Using relatively simple geometry and the beam profile, it is possible to calculate this effect and correct for this in the data. However, practice shows that a proper correction depends on a good alignment of the sample which can be a challenge. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 An alternative method to measure the intensity profile is to not change the incidence angle, but to change the wavelength. This does require an incoming neutron beam with a wider variety of wavelengths. As the energy of a neutron can be described as E = hv/lambda, the wavelength of a neutron is directly dependent of its velocity. Specific velocities can be selected using so-called fermi choppers. These are rotating disks placed with a certain distance from eachother with a small opening where neutrons can pass, as sketched in figure X. These disks rotate with a certain angular velocity, such that only specific velocities of neutrons can pass between both disks. These fermi choppers therefore act as a velocity filter, and therefore using E = hv/lambda as a wavelength filter. By varying the wavelength during measurement and keeping the incidence angle constant, one can obtain the requested range of q using equation X, without having any beam overspill effects.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 2  Neutron Instrument\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The instrument used in this work for neutron measurements is a monochromatic reflectometer operating at a neutron wavelength of 5.21 \u195?\u8230?. A sketch of the instrument can be seen in figure X. The actual setup at the experimental site is divided up with a physical wall. The incoming neutron beam arrives through the waveguides at the left-hand side of the wall (as seen in the sketch), and the beam subsequently moves from the monochromator crystal where a single wavelength is selected towards the detector on the right-hand side in the sketch. The polarizer that is used in this reflectometer acts simultaneously as a wavelength filter, the polarizing functionality is not used however since this work is limited to unpolarised neutron reflectometry.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMsuperadam_gradient}2{\*\bkmkend BMsuperadam_gradient}: A simplified sketch of magnetron sputtering. Incoming Argon ions heat the sputtering target, knocking out target atoms which in their turn form a new layer of the material on the substrate.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 A simplified sketch of magnetron sputtering. Incoming Argon ions heat the sputtering target, knocking out target atoms which in their turn form a new layer of the material on the substrate." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Chapter \par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Reflectivity Simulations\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 In order to obtain structural parameters for the samples, the experimental reflectivity curves need to be fitted to mathematical simulations for each sample. There are several possible mathematical descriptions that can be used, within this work there are two different descriptions that are applied based on the software that has been used. Specular reflectivity is used described using the Paratt recursion formula, whilst the off-specular simulation is described using the Born-approximation. Both of these formalisms are described in this chapter.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Parrat recursion\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The specular reflectivity of the samples is simulated using the Paratt recursion formalism. This description recursively accounts for the reflection from each subsequent interface in order to simulate the total intensity at detector. For a multilayer with a certain amount of layers, the reflectivity for the j\rquote th layer can be calculated using: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u967*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}})= \\F({\i R}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}}),{\i T}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}}))={\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 \u8722?2{\i i}{\i k}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i z}\\,{\i j}}){\i z}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i j}})}) \\F({\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}\\,{\i j}+1})+{\u967*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}+1}){\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2{\i i}{\i k}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i z}\\,{\i j}}){\i z}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i j}})}),1+{\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}\\,{\i j}+1}){\u967*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}+1})+{\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2{\i i}{\i k}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i z}\\,{\i j}}){\i z}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i j}})}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (1)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i R}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i T}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} in this equation describe the reflected and transmitted amplitude for layer {{\i j}}. The fraction of these, {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u967*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} therefore describes the normalised intensity from each layer. The factor {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}\\,{\i j}+1})}}{\fldrslt }}
} is the Fresnel coefficient for the interface, and can be written as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i j}\\,{\i j}+1})= \\F({\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}\\,{\i j}})\u8722?{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}\\,{\i j}+1}),{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}\\,{\i j}})+{\i k}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i z}\\,{\i j}+1}))}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (2)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 It follows from this description that this formalism is recursive, the reflectivity of layer j+1 is required to calculate the reflectivity of the j\rquote th layer. To solve this equation, we can use {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i T}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})}}{\fldrslt }}
} = 1 and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i R}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i N}+1})=0}}{\fldrslt }}
} as starting point, this equates to the incident wave having full transmission at {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i T}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})}}{\fldrslt }}
}, and to no reflection from the substrate at {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i R}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i N}+1})}}{\fldrslt }}
}. This formalism is commonly used to simulate the specular reflection for neutrons and X-rays in reflectivity simulation software. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMbornapproximation}2{\*\bkmkend BMbornapproximation}  Born Approximation\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The Born approximation (BA) was proposed as early as 1926 by Max Born. To get to this approximation, we may first start with the general time-independent Schr\u195?\u182?dinger equation: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ ( \\F({\u295*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}),2{\i m}){\f5\u8711*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})+{\i V}({{\i r}})){\u936*}({{\i r}})={\i E}{\u936*}({{\i r}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (3)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 We can re-write this as: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ ({\f5\u8711*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})+{\i k}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})){\u936*}({{\i r}})= \\F(2{\i m},{\u295*})\\s\\up5({\fs16 2}){\i V}({{\i r}}){\u936*}({{\i r}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (4)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i k}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})= \\F(2{\i m},{\u295*})\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})}}{\fldrslt }}
}. The general solution to this equation can be expressed as an integral: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}({{\i r}})= \\i \\in(,, ){\i G}({\i r}\u8722?{\i r}'){\i V}({{\i r}}){\u936*}({{\i r}}){\i d}\\s\\up5({\fs16 3}){\i r}'}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (5)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The factor G in this equation is known as Green\u226?\u8364?\u8482?s function, which can be obtained by solving the point source equation: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ ({\f5\u8711*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})+{\i k}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})){\i G}({\i r}\u8722?{\i r}')={\u948*}({\i r}\u8722?{\i r}')}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (6)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Solving this for the Green\rquote s function gives us the integral form for the Schr\u195?\u182?dinger equation. {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}({{\i r}})={\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i k}}\\s\\do4({\fs13 0}){\u8901*}{{\i r}}})\u8722? \\F({\i m},2{\u960*}{\u295*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})) \\i \\in(,, ) \\F({\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{\i k}|{\i r}\u8722?{\i r}'|}),|{\i r}\u8722?{\i r}'|){\i V}({\i r}'){\u936*}({\i r}'){\i d}\\s\\up5({\fs16 3}){\i r}'}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMbornscatteredwave}7{\*\bkmkend BMbornscatteredwave})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 This equation can be solved approximately using the so-called Born series. The zero\u226?\u8364?\u8482?th order solution of the Born approximation is given by a planar wave: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})({{\i r}})={\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i k}}\\s\\do4({\fs13 0}){\u8901*}{{\i r}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (8)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The first order solution is then given by inserting the solution for {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})}}{\fldrslt }}
} into the integral of the general equation expressed in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMbornscatteredwave \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {6.7}{Born Approximation}}}}. This then gives us: {\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})({{\i r}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ ={\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i k}}\\s\\do4({\fs13 0}){\u8901*}{{\i r}}})\u8722? \\F({\i m},2{\u960*}{\u295*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})) \\i \\in(,, ) \\F({\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{\i k}|{\i r}\u8722?{\i r}\\s\\do4({\fs13 1})|}),|{\i r}\u8722?{\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})|){\i V}({\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})){\u936*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 0})({{\i r}}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})){\i d}\\s\\up5({\fs16 3}){\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (9)}\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ }}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ ={\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i k}}\\s\\do4({\fs13 0}){\u8901*}{{\i r}}})\u8722? \\F({\i m},2{\u960*}{\u295*}\\s\\up5({\fs16 2})) \\i \\in(,, ) \\F({\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{\i k}|{\i r}\u8722?{\i r}\\s\\do4({\fs13 1})|}),|{\i r}\u8722?{\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})|){\i V}({\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})){\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i k}}\\s\\do4({\fs13 0}){\u8901*}{{\i r}}}){\i d}\\s\\up5({\fs16 3}){\i r}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (10)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 The second order can then be found by inserting this first order solution into equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMbornscatteredwave \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {6.7}{Born Approximation}}}}. By continuing this way, any order can be obtained, but for most cases only the first order approximation is actually used. \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 2.1  The Distorted Wave Born Approximation\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 When the scattering intensity becomes very large, the assumption of a planar wave in the conventional BA no longer holds, scattering entities themselves can introduce perturbations into the field and the wave therefore needs to be described as a distorted wave, a superposition of a downwards and upwards travelling planar wave. This is the underlying principle of the Distorted Wave Born Approximation (DWBA), which is the formalism that is used to simulate off-specular scattering in this work. The described wave function has a distorted form that can be described as downward and upward travelling waves for both the scattered and incident waves: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u968*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i w}})({{\i r}})={\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 \u8722?,{\i w}})({{\i r}})+{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 +,{\i w}})({{\i r}})\\,{\i w}={\i i}\\,{\i f}.}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (11)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 \u8722?,{\i w}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} describes the downwards wave while {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 +,{\i w}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} describes the upwards wave. The relevant scattering elements can then be described using Dirac notation as follows: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\u968*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}{{\u948*}{\i v}}{{\u968*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})}={{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 \u8722?,{\i i}})}{{\u948*}{\i v}}{{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 +,{\i f}})}+{{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 \u8722?,{\i i}})}{{\u948*}{\i v}}{{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 \u8722?,{\i f}})}+{{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 +,{\i i}})}{{\u948*}{\i v}}{{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 +,{\i f}})}+{{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 +,{\i i}})}{{\u948*}{\i v}}{{\u968*}\\s\\up({\fs16 \u8722?,{\i f}})}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 ({\*\bkmkstart BMdistortedbornexpansion}12{\*\bkmkend BMdistortedbornexpansion})}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where {{\u948*}{\i v}} describes a perturbation on the scattering potential that the incident wave experiences. If we expand the left-hand side in the integral notation we get: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {{\u968*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i i}})}{{\u948*}{\i v}}{{\u968*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i f}})}= \\i \\in(,, ){\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i k}}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i i}}){{\i r}}}){\u948*}{\i v}{\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i k}}\\s\\do4({\fs13 {\i f}}){{\i r}}}){\i d}\\s\\up5({\fs16 3}){\i r}= \\i \\in(,, ){\u948*}{\i v}{\i e}\\s\\up5({\fs16 {\i i}{{\i q}}{{\i r}}}){\i d}\\s\\up5({\fs16 3}){\i r}}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab{\b0 (13)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Which gives us the Fourier transform of the perturbed potential {{\u948*}{\i v}}, which is what is being measured at the detector. Note how the first term on the right-hand side in equation {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMdistortedbornexpansion \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {6.12}{The Distorted Wave Born Approximation}}}} simply describes the interaction with the downwards and the upwards wave, which is the usual term as used by the conventional BA. The additional terms are added upon this in the DWBA, and these describe the additional scattering effects for intense scattering. These terms are all illustrated in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMdwba_terms \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {6.1}{While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth.}}}}. {\par
\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMdwba_terms}1{\*\bkmkend BMdwba_terms}: While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 3  Sample description\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The samples themselves need to be described in the simulation software in order to fit the experimental data with the simulated formalism. In order to do this in a meaningful way, some approximations need to be made. It is easy to describe the sample in as much detail as possible, and let the software fit for all possible parameters, but that leaves the possibility of overfitting, losing all physical meaning behind the result. It is therefore better to make a robust and simple model, than a complicated one that is clearly overfitted. As the mathematician George Box famously said, \u226?\u8364?\u732?all models are wrong, but some models are useful\u226?\u8364?\u8482?. Our task is not to find a model that gives a perfect fit to our data, it is our task instead to find a model that actually is useful. In our case this means a model that reliably gives physically correct information about the structural parameters of the sample. The samples in this work are all described with such as description. A stack of an N amount of bilayers consisting of Ni and Ti are deposited on top op a Si substrate. A thin layer of SiO2 is assumed between the Si substrate and the multiplayer stack. On top of the multilayer stack, an oxide layer is assumed to exist as well. A sketch describing this can be seen in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMmodeldescription \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{@TitleReference {6.2}{While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth.}}}}.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMmodeldescription}2{\*\bkmkend BMmodeldescription}: While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 While these two multilayers have roughly the same interface width, the sample on the right-hand side looks much more smooth due to the higher latteral correlation length. The latteral correlation length describes the cut-off length scale where an interface begins to look smooth." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 While the initial interface width of the Ni and Ti layers are considered independent from each other, the accumulation of the interface width is assumed to be equal. The total interface width for a Ni and Ti layer in the stack, is therefore determined by: {\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i T}{\i i}}})={\i A}{\u8901*}{\i i}+{\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i T}{\i i}\\,{\i i}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab
\tab{\b0 (14)}\par
\pard\plain\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqr\tx3105\tqc\tx3450\tql\tx3795\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i N}{\i i}}})={\i A}{\u8901*}{\i i}+{\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i N}{\i i}\\,{\i i}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
\tab
\tab
\tab{\b0 (15)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Where A is the accumulated interface width per bilayer, i indicates the position of the bilayer, and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i N}{\i i}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} and {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\u963*}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\f0 {\i T}{\i i}}})}}{\fldrslt }}
} describe the initial interface width of Ni and Ti respectively. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter 9\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Multilayer Characterization\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 The multilayers in this work have been characterized with several techniques. Apart from X-ray- and neutron reflectometry, other techniques have been used as well. These techniques are described in this chapter. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Elastic Recoil Detection Analysis\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is a microscopy technique in which a beam of electrons is transmitted through a specimen to form an image. The specimen is most often an ultrathin section less than 100 nm thick or a suspension on a grid. An image is formed from the interaction of the electrons with the sample as the beam is transmitted through the specimen. The image is then magnified and focused onto an imaging device, such as a fluorescent screen, a layer of photographic film, or a sensor such as a scintillator attached to a charge-coupled device. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is a microscopy technique in which a beam of electrons is transmitted through a specimen to form an image. The specimen is most often an ultrathin section less than 100 nm thick or a suspension on a grid. An image is formed from the interaction of the electrons with the sample as the beam is transmitted through the specimen. The image is then magnified and focused onto an imaging device, such as a fluorescent screen, a layer of photographic film, or a sensor such as a scintillator attached to a charge-coupled device. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 2  X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is a microscopy technique in which a beam of electrons is transmitted through a specimen to form an image. The specimen is most often an ultrathin section less than 100 nm thick or a suspension on a grid. An image is formed from the interaction of the electrons with the sample as the beam is transmitted through the specimen. The image is then magnified and focused onto an imaging device, such as a fluorescent screen, a layer of photographic film, or a sensor such as a scintillator attached to a charge-coupled device. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  Transmission Electron Microscopy\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is a microscopy technique in which a beam of electrons is transmitted through a specimen to form an image. The specimen is most often an ultrathin section less than 100 nm thick or a suspension on a grid. An image is formed from the interaction of the electrons with the sample as the beam is transmitted through the specimen. The image is then magnified and focused onto an imaging device, such as a fluorescent screen, a layer of photographic film, or a sensor such as a scintillator attached to a charge-coupled device. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter 10\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Summary of the results\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 In order to obtain structural parameters for the samples, the experimental reflectivity curves need to be fitted to mathematical simulations for each sample. There are several possible mathematical descriptions that can be used, within this work there are two different descriptions that are applied based on the software that has been used. Specular reflectivity is used described using the Paratt recursion formula, whilst the off-specular simulation is described using the Born-approximation. Both of these formalisms are described in this chapter. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter 11\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Outlook\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 In order to obtain structural parameters for the samples, the experimental reflectivity curves need to be fitted to mathematical simulations for each sample. There are several possible mathematical descriptions that can be used, within this work there are two different descriptions that are applied based on the software that has been used. Specular reflectivity is used described using the Paratt recursion formula, whilst the off-specular simulation is described using the Born-approximation. Both of these formalisms are described in this chapter. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter 12\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Summary of the papers\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 In order to obtain structural parameters for the samples, the experimental reflectivity curves need to be fitted to mathematical simulations for each sample. There are several possible mathematical descriptions that can be used, within this work there are two different descriptions that are applied based on the software that has been used. Specular reflectivity is used described using the Paratt recursion formula, whilst the off-specular simulation is described using the Born-approximation. Both of these formalisms are described in this chapter. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter 13\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Papers\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 In order to obtain structural parameters for the samples, the experimental reflectivity curves need to be fitted to mathematical simulations for each sample. There are several possible mathematical descriptions that can be used, within this work there are two different descriptions that are applied based on the software that has been used. Specular reflectivity is used described using the Paratt recursion formula, whilst the off-specular simulation is described using the Born-approximation. Both of these formalisms are described in this chapter. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_kittel \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{kittel}}}
] 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_birkholz \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{birkholz}}}
]\par
}}
